grep-find-unicode-wrapper(1) -- Find suspicious Unicode characters using grep semantics
========================================================================================

<!--
# Copyright (C) 2022 - 2025 ENCRYPTED SUPPORT LLC <adrelanos@whonix.org>
# See the file COPYING for copying conditions.
-->

<!--
# AI-Assisted
-->

## SYNOPSIS

`grep-find-unicode-wrapper` [*GREP_OPTIONS*...] [*PATH*...]

## DESCRIPTION

`grep-find-unicode-wrapper` is a thin wrapper around `grep`(1) that
runs four pre-configured passes against the supplied input, looking
for suspicious Unicode characters: non-ASCII bytes, Right-to-Left
Override and related bidirectional control characters, and ASCII
control characters. Matching paths (with line numbers) are printed
on standard output.

It exists to apply a fixed set of vetted regex patterns - the same
set referenced by the Unicode Trojan and "Trojan Source" advisories -
across whatever files the user names, while still letting the user
inject their own `grep` flags such as `--recursive`.

This tool is **pipeline-friendly**, not user-friendly. End users who
just want to know whether a file or directory contains anything
unsafe should use `text-safety-scan-file`(1) instead.

### Detection set

Each invocation runs four `grep` passes (results are merged and
de-duplicated):

1. Non-ASCII bytes via `[^\x00-\x7F]` (Perl regex).
2. Non-ASCII characters via `[^[:ascii:]]` (Perl regex).
3. The bidirectional / formatting control characters listed in
   the Trojan Source advisory:
   `U+061C`, `U+200E`, `U+200F`, `U+202A`-`U+202E`, `U+2066`-`U+2069`.
4. ASCII control characters
   (`U+0000`-`U+0008`, `U+000B`-`U+000C`, `U+000E`-`U+001F`, `U+007F`).

`--binary-files=text` is set so that NUL and backspace bytes are
matched even in files `grep` would otherwise classify as binary.

### Forwarding user flags

Anything passed on the command line is forwarded to `grep` after the
internal options are applied. Common additions:

* `--recursive` (or `-r`) to descend into directories.
* `-l` / `-L` selectors are not useful here; the wrapper already
  uses `--files-with-matches`.

### End-of-options ('--')

This wrapper does **not** insert `--` between its own arguments and
the user's. That is by design: users may need to pass `--` themselves
as part of their `grep` invocation. It remains the responsibility of
the caller to supply `--` when separating options from filenames.

## RETURN VALUES

These intentionally mirror `grep`(1):

* `0` Matches were found. Matching paths are printed.
* `1` No matches were found. Nothing is printed.
* `2` `grep` reported a syntax or I/O error. The wrapper exits with
  the same code.

This is the right contract for use in pipelines and shell scripts
(`if grep-find-unicode-wrapper -r src/; then ...`), but it is the
opposite of what most other safety tools return (clean = 0). If you
want "non-zero means unsafe was found", use `text-safety-scan-file`(1).

## EXAMPLES

Scan a single file:

<code>
grep-find-unicode-wrapper file.txt
</code>

Scan a directory recursively:

<code>
grep-find-unicode-wrapper --recursive src/
</code>

Use in a shell condition (note the inverted sense):

<code>
if grep-find-unicode-wrapper --recursive src/; then
    printf '%s\n' 'Suspicious characters found.' >&2
    exit 1
fi
</code>

## SEE ALSO

text-safety-scan-file(1), unicode-show(1), grep(1)

Background:

* `https://www.kicksecure.com/wiki/Unicode#grep-find-unicode-wrapper`
* `https://access.redhat.com/security/vulnerabilities/RHSB-2021-007`
* `https://lintian.debian.org/tags/unicode-trojan`

## AUTHOR

This man page has been written by Patrick Schleizer (adrelanos@whonix.org).
