sanitize-string(1) -- Strip markup and control characters from a string
========================================================================

<!--
# Copyright (C) 2025 ENCRYPTED SUPPORT LLC <adrelanos@whonix.org>
# See the file COPYING for copying conditions.
-->

## SYNOPSIS

`sanitize-string [--help] max_length [string]`

## DESCRIPTION

`sanitize-string` combines the functionality of `strip-markup`(1) and
`stdisplay`(1) to fully sanitize an untrusted string by removing both
HTML markup tags and dangerous terminal control characters (such as ANSI
escape sequences). The result can be safely displayed in a terminal or
used in non-HTML text contexts.

If a string is provided as the second positional argument, it is used
as the input. Otherwise, the string is read from standard input.

The `max_length` argument specifies the maximum number of characters to
output. Set it to `nolimit` to allow arbitrarily long strings. When a
limit is set, the output is truncated to that many characters.

### Sanitization order

Sanitization is performed in three steps:

1. Strip ANSI escape sequences and control characters (via `stdisplay`).
2. Strip HTML markup tags (via `strip-markup`).
3. Strip ANSI escape sequences and control characters again, in case
   the markup stripping step decoded HTML entities into escape
   characters.

This ordering ensures that neither markup nor escape sequences can be
used to smuggle the other past the sanitizer.

## RETURN VALUES

* `0` Successfully sanitized and printed the result.
* `1` Usage error (missing or invalid arguments).

## EXAMPLES

Sanitize a string with no length limit:

<code>
sanitize-string nolimit '&lt;b&gt;Hello&lt;/b&gt;'
</code>

Output: `Hello`

Sanitize and truncate to 10 characters:

<code>
sanitize-string 10 'This is a long untrusted string.'
</code>

Output: `This is a `

Sanitize from standard input:

<code>
echo '&lt;script&gt;alert(1)&lt;/script&gt;' | sanitize-string nolimit
</code>

Use `--` to separate options from positional arguments:

<code>
sanitize-string -- nolimit '--help'
</code>

## SEE ALSO

strip-markup(1), stdisplay(1)

## AUTHOR

This man page has been written by Patrick Schleizer (adrelanos@whonix.org).
