str_replace(1) -- literal search and replace in files (in place) and in STDIN
=============================================

<!--
# Copyright: Copyright (c) 2016 Samer-Al-iraqi
# License: MIT License
# Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
# of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
# in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
# to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
# copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
# furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:
#
# The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all
# copies or substantial portions of the Software.
#
# THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
# IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
# FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
# AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
# LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
# OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
# SOFTWARE.
-->

## SYNOPSIS

`LANG=C str_replace Search Replace File`

## DESCRIPTION
Non-Regex text search and replace for linux

LANG=C str_replace will enable you to do literal search and replace in files (in place) and in STDIN

No messing with regular expression anymore. No more `sed` or `awk` or `perl -pie`. This handy script written in perl will replace text exactly as you want, No matter it has the so-called special characters or not. Just like `str_replace` PHP function.

## RETURN VALUES
0 ok.

1 syntax error.

2 if file not found.

## EXAMPLE
To read input from STDIN and write to STDOUT.

`STDIN | LANG=C str_replace Search Replace`

## NOTES

* Search and replace always case-sensitive
* Always do global Search and replace
* Don't care about lines.
* It may work in Windows as well.
* tested with unicode (I surprised it worked correctly!)

## AUTHOR
This man page has been compiled and modified by
Patrick Schleizer (adrelanos@whonix.org)
based contains contents from
https://github.com/Samer-Al-iraqi/Linux-str_replace/blob/master/README.md
Copyright: Copyright (c) 2016 Samer-Al-iraqi
License: MIT License
