<!-- Authored by Claude (Anthropic). -->
text-safety-scan-find(1) -- Run text-safety-scan-file across every file under a directory tree
==============================================================================================

<!--
# Copyright (C) 2026 - 2026 ENCRYPTED SUPPORT LLC <adrelanos@whonix.org>
# See the file COPYING for copying conditions.
-->

## SYNOPSIS

`text-safety-scan-find` *PATH* [*find-expression*...]

`text-safety-scan-find` `--help`

## DESCRIPTION

Thin wrapper around `find`(1) that hands every regular file under
the given starting point(s) to `text-safety-scan-file`(1). The user
controls recursion / pruning / symlink / size / binary policy by
passing standard `find`(1) expressions; this script does not invent
a DSL.

The exact pipeline is:

    find "$@" -type f -print0 | xargs -0 -r text-safety-scan-file --

Anything before the trailing `-type f -print0` is passed verbatim
to find. See `find`(1) for expression syntax.

## EXAMPLES

Scan every file under `/repo`:

    text-safety-scan-find /repo

Skip the `.git` directory:

    text-safety-scan-find /repo -not -path '*/.git/*'

Skip image files:

    text-safety-scan-find /repo -not -name '*.png' -not -name '*.jpg'

Follow symlinks (default is to NOT follow):

    text-safety-scan-find -L /repo

Limit to small files only:

    text-safety-scan-find /repo -size -1M

Combine prunes with size filter:

    text-safety-scan-find /repo -not -path '*/.git/*' -size -1M

## EXIT CODES

* `0` All scanned files are clean.
* non-zero An error occurred or a finding was reported. The exact
  exit code is whatever the `find`(1) / `xargs`(1) /
  `text-safety-scan-file`(1) pipeline produced; this wrapper does
  not translate it. Notably, `xargs` collapses any child exit code
  in `1..125` to its own `123`, so the per-finding-vs-hard-error
  distinction the file tool makes is lost here. For maintainers who
  need that fidelity, run `text-safety-scan-file`(1) on individual
  files.

## NOTES

* Paths starting with `-` are not handled here; they would confuse
  `find`(1)'s argument parser. If you need to scan such a path,
  prepend `./` to the path or use `text-safety-scan-file`(1)
  directly with `--`.
* This wrapper is deliberately five lines of bash. Read the source
  if you want to know exactly what it does.

## SEE ALSO

text-safety-scan-file(1), find(1), xargs(1)

## AUTHOR

This man page has been written by Patrick Schleizer (adrelanos@whonix.org).
